Human Resources and Asset Management
1. To what extent do you use full time employees vs. on demand contractors? *This question is required.
We only use full time employees
We use mostly full-time employees with some on-demand contractors in non-mission critical areas (e.g. IT, event production, etc.)
We use some on-demand contractors to augment mission critical areas (e.g. operations, production, HR, etc.)
We mostly use on-demand contractors in addition to a small full-time core team
2. To what extent do you leverage external resources to perform business functions? *This question is required.
Most business functions are handled by internal employees
We outsource some administrative and support functions (e.g. AP, AR, help desk, facilities, etc)
We outsource some mission critical functions (e.g. Apple & Foxconn)
We emphasize agility - even mission critical functions are outsourced as variable costs rather than fixed costs
3. To what extent do you own vs. rent the assets in your organization? *This question is required.
We own all assets except peripheral equipment (e.g. copiers)
We access some key equipment/services on demand (e.g. cloud computing)
We use on-demand assets in multiple business functions (e.g. Hackerspaces or shared offices vs. leasing or buying office space; Using Netjet vs. buying a jet)
We use on-demand assets even in mission critical areas (e.g. Apple & Foxconn)
---
Community & Crowd
4. To what extent do you manage and interact with your Community (users, customers, partners, fans)? *This question is required.
We have very passive involvement with our community (i.e. we use some social media)
We leverage our community for market research and other listening activities
We actively use the community for outreach, support and marketing
The community heavily influences our organization (e.g. product ideas, product development)
5. How do you engage your Community? *This question is required.
No engagement beyond standard customer service (e.g. traditional CRM)
Our community is centralized and communication is “one to many” (e.g. TED.com, Apple)
Our community is decentralized and communication is “many to many” but passive & single purpose (e.g. LinkedIn, Facebook)
Our community is decentralized, communication is “many to many” and drives peer-to-peer value creation (e.g. DIY Drones, GitHub, Wikipedia)
---
Engagement of Community & Crowd
6. Do you actively convert “the Crowd” (general public) into Community members? *This question is required.
We use standard techniques like PR to increase awareness
We leverage social media for marketing purposes
We use gamification and incentive competitions to turn crowd into community
Our products and services are inherently designed to convert crowd into Community (e.g. shareable memes like the Lyft mustache or Hotmail signature)
7. To what extent do you use Gamification or Incentive Competitions? *This question is required.
We use gamification/incentive competitions for internal motivation only (e.g. Salesperson of the month)
We use basic gamification externally (e.g. loyalty programs, frequent flyer programs)
We build gamification/incentive competitions into our products and services (e.g. Foursquare)
We use gamification/incentive competitions to drive ideation and product development (e.g. Quirky, Kaggle)
---
Information & Social Enablement
8. To what extent are your products/services information based? *This question is required.
Our product/services are physical in nature (e.g. Starbucks, Levi's or most traditional retailers)
Our products/services are physical, but their delivery and/or production is information-based (e.g. Amazon)
Our products/services are physical, but services are information based and revenue generating (e.g. iPhone/App store)
Our products/services are entirely information-based (e.g. LinkedIn, Facebook, Spotify, Netflix)
9. To what extent is Social functionality and collaboration a central element of your product/service offering? *This question is required.
No social/collaborative aspect is designed into our products/services (e.g. buying a lawnmower)
We have bolted social/collaborative structures onto existing products/services (e.g products have a Facebook page or Twitter feed)
Social/collaborative functionality is used to enhance or deliver product/service offerings (e.g. 99Designs, Indiegogo, Taskrabbit)
Social/collaborative inputs actually build our products/services offering (e.g. Yelp, Waze, Foursquare)
---
Data & Algorithms
10. To what extent do you use algorithms and machine learning to make meaningful decisions? *This question is required.
We don't do any meaningful data analysis
We collect and analyze data mostly via reporting systems
We use Machine Learning algorithms to analyze data and drive actionable decisions
Our products and services are built around algorithms and machine learning (e.g. PageRank)
11. Do you share strategic data assets internally across the company or expose them externally to your community? *This question is required.
We don't share data, even between departments
We have data shared between departments (i.e. use internal dashboards, activity streams and wiki pages)
We expose some data to key suppliers (e.g. EDI interfaces or via APIs)
We expose some data to our external ecosystem via open APIs (e.g. Flickr, Google, Twitter, Ford)
---
Interfaces and Scalable Processes
12. Do you have specialized processes for managing the output of externalities within your internal organization? [i.e by externalities, we mean Staff on Demand, Community/Crowd, Algorithms, Leased Assets and Engagement] *This question is required.
We don't leverage externalities or we have no special processes to capture or manage externalities
We have dedicated staff to manage externalities (e.g. X Prize creates one-off prizes, TEDx applications handled manually)
We have automated processing of one externality (e.g. Elance or DonorsChoose)
We have automated processing of several externalities (Indiegogo, Github, Uber, Kaggle, Wikipedia)
13. How replicable and scalable are key processes outside your core organization? *This question is required.
We have traditional, mostly manual processes (usually confined by SOP - Standard Operating Procedure)
Some of our processes are scalable and repeatable, but only inside the organization
Some of our processes operate outside the organization (e.g. TEDx events, XPRIZE or franchise structures)
Most core processes are self-provisioning and executed outside the organization via a scalable platform (e.g. AirBnB or Adsense)
---
Real time Dashboards and Employee Management
14. Which metrics do you track about your organization and your product innovation portfolio ? (e.g. Lean Startup Analytics?) *This question is required.
We only track traditional KPIs monthly/quarterly/annually (e.g. sales, costs, profits)
We collect some real-time, traditional metrics from transactional systems (e.g. ERP)
We collect all real-time, traditional metrics and use some Lean Startup metrics
We collect real-time traditional metrics and Lean Startup (value and learning) metrics like repeat usage, monetization, referral and NPS
15. Do you use some variant of Objectives and Key Results (OKRs) to track individual/team performance? *This question is required.
No, we use traditional quarterly/annual performance reviews or 360 reviews or stack ranking
We have implemented OKRs in innovation areas or at the edges of the organization
OKRs are used across our organization (e.g. LinkedIn)
OKRs are used across our organization with full transparency (e.g. Google - everyone can view each others' performance)
---
Experimentation & Risk
16. Does your organization constantly optimize processes through experimentation, A/B testing and short feedback loops? (e.g. Lean Startup methodology) *This question is required.
No, we use traditional business process management (BPM)
We use the Lean approach (or similar) for customer facing areas like marketing
We use the Lean approach for product innovation and product development
We use the Lean approach for all core functions (innovation, marketing, sales, service, HR, even legal!)
17. To what extent do you tolerate failure and encourage risk-taking? *This question is required.
Failure is not an option (NASA) and is a Career Limiting Move (CLM)
Failure and Risk are encouraged, but in name only and not tracked or quantified
Failure and risk-taking are allowed and measured, but sandboxed in Skunkworks or very defined boundaries (e.g. Lockheed skunkworks)
Failure and risk-taking are expected, pervasive, measured and even celebrated across the organization (e.g. Amazon, Google, P&G Heroic Failure Award)
---
Autonomy & Decentralization
18. Does your organization operate with large, hierarchical structures or small, multi-disciplinary, self-organizing teams? *This question is required.
We have a traditional corporate hierarchy with large, specialized groups operating in silos
We have some small, multi-disciplinary teams operating at the edges, away from the core
We have some small, multi-disciplinary teams accepted and embraced within the core organization
Small, multi-disciplinary, networked, self-organizing teams are the primary operating structure across the organization (e.g. Valve)
19. To what extent is authority/decision making decentralized? *This question is required.
Our organization uses traditional, top-down command & control
Decentralized decision-making happens in R&D, innovation and product development
Decentralized decision-making happens in all customer-facing areas like marketing, sales, etc (e.g. Zappos)
All key decisions are decentralized (except purpose, culture and vision, e.g. Valve)
---
Social Technologies & Social Business
20. Do you use advanced social tools for knowledge-sharing, communication, coordination and/or collaboration (e.g. Google Drive, Asana, RedBooth, Dropbox, Yammer, Chatter, Evernote)? *This question is required.
No, email is our primary communication vehicle
Some teams use social tools, but not across the organization
Most business units use social tools (and some external vendors/partners, though often unauthorized)
Use of social tools is mandated across the organization as policy
21. What is the nature and focus of your organizational purpose or mission? *This question is required.
Our Mission focuses on delivering the best products and services
Our Mission focuses on our core values as an organization, extending beyond delivering products and services
Our Mission is broader than serving end customers; it aims to bring positive change to our entire ecosystem of vendors, partners, suppliers and employees
We have a transformational purpose that goes beyond a Mission Statement. We aspire to deliver significance to the whole world
---
